README.adoc, before:

= Cache Policy

ifdef::env-github[]
image:https://ci.gravitee.io/buildStatus/icon?job=gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-cache/master["Build status", link="https://ci.gravitee.io/job/gravitee-io/job/gravitee-policy-cache/"]
image:https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg["Gitter", link="https://gitter.im/gravitee-io/gravitee-io?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge"]
endif::[]

== Phase

|===
|onRequest |onResponse

| X
|

|===

== Description

Cache policy enables the user to _cache_ upstream response (content, status and headers) and avoid subsequent calls to
the backend.

This policy is based on a _cache resource_ defined at the API level and let the underlying cache system to follow the
API lifecycle (stop / start). (_TODO_: provide a link to cache resource)
This means that a _cache resource_ must be defined to be used by this policy (the resource name is specified in the
policy configuration: _cacheName_)

Consumer can by-pass cache by adding a _bypass-cache=true_ query parameter or by providing a
_X-Gravitee-Bypass-Cache=true_ HTTP header.

== Configuration

You can configure the policy with the following options :

|===
|Property |Required |Description |Type |Default

|cacheName|X|The cache resource used to store the element|string|
|key||The key used to store the element (support EL)|string|
|timeToLiveSeconds|X|Time to live of the element put in cache (Default to 10 minutes)|integer|600
|useResponseCacheHeaders||Time to live based on 'Cache-Control' and / or 'Expires' headers from backend response|boolean|false
|scope|X|Cached response can be set for a single consumer (application) or for all applications.<br><strong>WARNING:</strong> Please be aware that by using an \"API\" scope, data will be shared between all consumers !|API / APPLICATION|APPLICATION

|===


The key used to store element in cache can use the internal Expression Language to provide a dynamic value.

[source, json]
.Key based on the productId query parameter
----
"key": "{#request.params['productId']}"
----

[source, json]
.Key based on the api-key of the consumer
----
"key": "{#request.headers['X-Gravitee-Api-Key']}"
----

[source, json]
.Key based on an API's property and a query parameter
----
"key": "{#properties['siteID']}-{#request.params['productId']}"
----


[source, json]
.Configuration example
----
"cache": {
    "cacheName": "policy-cache",
    "key": "{#request.params['productId']}",
    "timeToLiveSeconds": 600,
    "useResponseCacheHeaders": false,
    "scope": "APPLICATION"
}
----

Commit message:

doc: Add link to cache resource

README.adoc, after:

= Cache Policy

ifdef::env-github[]
image:https://ci.gravitee.io/buildStatus/icon?job=gravitee-io/gravitee-policy-cache/master["Build status", link="https://ci.gravitee.io/job/gravitee-io/job/gravitee-policy-cache/"]
image:https://badges.gitter.im/Join Chat.svg["Gitter", link="https://gitter.im/gravitee-io/gravitee-io?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge"]
endif::[]

== Phase

|===
|onRequest |onResponse

| X
|

|===

== Description

Cache policy enables the user to _cache_ upstream response (content, status and headers) and avoid subsequent calls to
the backend.

This policy is based on a _cache resource_ defined at the API level and let the underlying cache system to follow the
API lifecycle (stop / start). Please have a look to <<apim_resources_cache.adoc, Cache resource>>
This means that a _cache resource_ must be defined to be used by this policy (the resource name is specified in the
policy configuration: _cacheName_).

WARNING: Cache policy requires a cache resource. If none is defined or not well configured, the API will not be deployed.

Consumer can by-pass cache by adding a _bypass-cache=true_ query parameter or by providing a
_X-Gravitee-Bypass-Cache=true_ HTTP header.

== Configuration

You can configure the policy with the following options :

|===
|Property |Required |Description |Type |Default

|cacheName|X|The cache resource used to store the element|string|
|key||The key used to store the element (support EL)|string|
|timeToLiveSeconds|X|Time to live of the element put in cache (Default to 10 minutes)|integer|600
|useResponseCacheHeaders||Time to live based on 'Cache-Control' and / or 'Expires' headers from backend response|boolean|false
|scope|X|Cached response can be set for a single consumer (application) or for all applications.<br><strong>WARNING:</strong> Please be aware that by using an \"API\" scope, data will be shared between all consumers !|API / APPLICATION|APPLICATION

|===


The key used to store element in cache can use the internal Expression Language to provide a dynamic value.

[source, json]
.Key based on the productId query parameter
----
"key": "{#request.params['productId']}"
----

[source, json]
.Key based on the api-key of the consumer
----
"key": "{#request.headers['X-Gravitee-Api-Key']}"
----

[source, json]
.Key based on an API's property and a query parameter
----
"key": "{#properties['siteID']}-{#request.params['productId']}"
----


[source, json]
.Configuration example
----
"cache": {
    "cacheName": "policy-cache",
    "key": "{#request.params['productId']}",
    "timeToLiveSeconds": 600,
    "useResponseCacheHeaders": false,
    "scope": "APPLICATION"
}
----
